docs(bodiless-documentation): JEPZ-315: Breakpoints: Site Layout (#2112)
johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS: packages/vital-examples/src/site-layout/README.md

# Tailwind Responsiveness

In this lesson we will learn how to define our site breakpoints and shadow the vital spacing.

## Overview

> This is a very quick lesson, first, we will define our breakpoints on the `tailwind.config.js` file, then we will shadow vital-spacing to override the tokens we want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a very quick lesson. First, we will define our breakpoints on the `tailwind.config.js` file. Next, we will shadow vital-spacing to override the tokens we want.
```

In this case, we will:

> 1. Define our breakpoint base on the [Bootstrap Breakpoint](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/layout/breakpoints/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define our breakpoint based on the [Bootstrap Breakpoint](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/layout/breakpoints/)
```

2. Define responsive container margins
3. Define site max width.

## Assignment

### Define our breakpoints.

> Let's start by taking a look into the bootstrap breakpoint values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by taking a look at the bootstrap breakpoint values.
```

|Breakpoint|Class infix|Dimensions|
|----------|-----------|----------|
|X-Small|None|<576px|
|Small|sm|≥576px|
|Medium|md|≥768px|
|Large|lg|≥992px|
|Extra large|xl|≥1200px|
|Extra extra large|xxl|≥1400px|

Bootstrap also implement mobile first concept, so the values are the min-width where that breakpoint should start as well,What will make our work easier, we will only have to define the values in our configuration file, so we will have something like this. You can find the tailwind reference [in here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/screens).

```js
...
theme: {
  screens: {
    // @media (min-width: 576px) { ... }
    sm: '576px',
    // @media (min-width: 768px) { ... }
    md: '768px',
    // @media (min-width: 992px) { ... }
    lg: '992px',
    // @media (min-width: 1200px) { ... }
    xl: '1200px',
    // @media (min-width: 1400px) { ... }
    xxl: '1400px',
  },
}
...
```

Once that's done, thanks to tailwind, our breakpoints are already set.

### Define our spacing tokens.

> Now let's take a look into the vital [Spacing component](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/main/packages/vital-elements/src/components/Spacing/tokens/vitalSpacing.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's take a look at the vital [Spacing component](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/main/packages/vital-elements/src/components/Spacing/tokens/vitalSpacing.ts).
```

```ts
export default asTokenGroup(SpacingMeta)({
  WithSiteMargin: 'mx-site-percent md:mx-md-site-percent 2xl:px-40',
  WithSiteXLConstraint: '2xl:container 2xl:mx-auto',
  Gutter: 'p-1 md:p-2 lg:p-3',
  GutterOffset: '-mx-1 md:-mx-2 lg:-mx-3',
  GutterTop: 'mt-4',
  GutterBottom: 'mb-4',
  GuttonLeft: 'ml-4',
  GuttonRight: 'mr-4',
});

```

> Everything we have here is pretty simple, we just defined a few tokens for easy spacing on our site, nothing fancy, except for two special tokens that we use to define the general layout of our website, they are `WithSiteMargin` and `WithSiteXLConstraint`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything we have here is pretty simple. We've just defined a few tokens for easy spacing on our site. Nothing fancy, except for two special tokens that we use to define the general layout of our website: `WithSiteMargin` and `WithSiteXLConstraint`.
```

For our example, we'll override these two special tokens to remove the `site-percent` dependency, and we'll set margins on `rem`, for both mobile and desktop.

As we are shadowing `vital-elements`, we must import the base version of the component and spread it when we export to preserve the other already existing elements, placing the tokens that we will override at the end of the object declaration.

```ts
import { vitalSpacingBase } from '@bodiless/vital-elements/src/base';
// Here we use `asTokenGroup` to share the SpacingMeta among all tokens exported.
export default asTokenGroup(SpacingMeta)({
  ...vitalSpacingBase,
  WithSiteMargin: 'mx-2 xl:mx-6 xxl:px-20',
  WithSiteXLConstraint: 'xxl:container xxl:mx-auto',
});
...
```

And that's it, we've already finished defining the tokens, now we just have to implement the shadow part, which is also very simple and straightforward.

### Shadowing

> And now, to shadow the our tokens, create a `Spacing.ts` file with the same path of the package, in our case, since we are shadowing the `@bodiles/vital-elements` package, we'll have this structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now, to shadow our tokens, create a `Spacing.ts` file with the same path of the package. In our case, since we are shadowing the `@bodiles/vital-elements` package, we'll have this structure.
```

```bash
├── shadow
│   ├── @bodiless
│   │   ├── vital-elements
│   │   |   └─ Spacing.ts
```

<!-- Waiting for the actual function to be available; -->

> Each file must only export the tokens from the components folder with the our helper `shadow` function. You can see more about this function [here](TBD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each file must only export the tokens from the components folder with our helper `shadow` function. You can see more about this function [here](TBD).
```

Author: This and all other issues were addressed on [this commit](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/pull/2112/commits/bcb15bd4cab75118ba85f6723cc3ffb50263247e).
